## v0.16.0 - 2025-02-19

### 🔥 Breaking Changes
- To match automatic configuration, `insecure-entitlements` now includes `security.insecure` when configuring the engine manually by @jedevc in https://github.com/dagger/dagger/pull/9513
- Module load performance is improved and related API refactored by @sipsma in https://github.com/dagger/dagger/pull/9505 \
  Loading of modules (the `load module` step shown in progress output) is faster now in many cases. In particular: 
  - Cache utilization of module loading is greatly improved, which can decrease load times by up to a factor of 10 when re-calling functions after changing source code in a Daggerized repo. 
  - Less extraneous files are loaded from the source repository
  
  Users of modules with large numbers of dependencies or in large git repositories are expected to see the most immediate benefit.
  
  For some concrete numbers, here are `load module` times for the `dagger-dev`'s module in Dagger's repository under different scenarios:
  - `dagger call --help` on new engines with an empty cache
    - v0.15.4: 1m20s
    - v0.16.0: 1m1s
    - ~23% faster
  - re-running `dagger call --help` with no file changes in the repo:
    - v0.15.4: 10.9s
    - v0.16.0: 2.8s
    - ~74% faster
  - re-running `dagger call --help` after making a change to a random source code file in the repo:
    - v0.15.4: 32.1s
    - v0.16.0: 2.8s
    - ~91% faster
  
  These improvements in cache utilization are also setup for future improvements not only in `load module` times but function call times more generally.
  
  This improvement comes with a few breaking changes that are not expected to impact most users. However, the changes require that users upgrade their CLI to v0.16.0 in order to connect to v0.16.0 engines. Older CLIs will error when connecting to newer engines.
  
  In terms of the breaking changes, impacted users are those who:
  - have function code that imports local libraries outside of the dagger module source directory
  - rely on a package manager configuration file (e.g. go.mod) that exists in a parent directory of the dagger module source directory
  
  They may need to update their dagger.json configuration file to add an explicit `"include"` setting to ensure those extra files or directories are loaded with the module. This is because numerous files previously implicitly loaded are now skipped by default, which contributes to the performance improvements.
  
  For example, if your module code is in `.dagger` and relies on the `go.mod` file in the parent directory, you would add the following to your `dagger.json` file:
  
  ```json
  {
    "include": ["../go.mod", "../go.sum"]
  }
  ```
  
  The values in the `"include"` array are relative to the directory containing `dagger.json`. They can be also be glob patterns (e.g. `"**/*.txt"`). To explicitly exclude some files matched by a previous include pattern, you can prepend the include pattern with a `!` character (e.g. `"!**/foo.txt"`).
  - Previously, the `exclude` setting existed but has now been superseded by prefixing an include pattern with a `!` character. However, this is backwards-compatible, so existing `exclude` settings will be automatically turned into equivalent `!`-prefixed include settings when running `dagger develop`. No user intervention is needed.
  
  The core API's `ModuleSource` and `Module` types have also undergone some cleanup that includes breaking changes. Most users do not interact with these APIs, but any that do may need some minor adjustments to their code. In particular:
  - `Module.initialize` no longer needs to be called; the module is initialized on creation
  - `ResolveFromCaller` no longer needs to be called for local module sources; context is automatically loaded and resolved efficiently as needed by other API calls

### Added
- Allow tilde home expansion in `dag.Host` operations by @jedevc in https://github.com/dagger/dagger/pull/9610

### What to do next?
- Read the [documentation](https://docs.dagger.io)
- Join our [Discord server](https://discord.gg/dagger-io)
- Follow us on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/dagger_io)
