docs/reference/dagger/README.md, before:

---
sidebar_label: dagger
---

# alpha.dagger.io/dagger

Dagger core types

```cue
import "alpha.dagger.io/dagger"
```

## dagger.#Context

### dagger.#Context Inputs

_No input._

### dagger.#Context Outputs

_No output._

## dagger.#FS

A reference to a filesystem tree. For example:  - The root filesystem of a container  - A source code repository  - A directory containing binary artifacts Rule of thumb: if it fits in a tar archive, it fits in a #FS.

### dagger.#FS Inputs

_No input._

### dagger.#FS Outputs

_No output._

## dagger.#Plan

A deployment plan executed by `dagger up`

### dagger.#Plan Inputs

_No input._

### dagger.#Plan Outputs

_No output._

## dagger.#Secret

A reference to an external secret, for example:  - A password  - A SSH private key  - An API token Secrets are never merged in the Cue tree. They can only be used by a special filesystem mount designed to minimize leak risk.

### dagger.#Secret Inputs

_No input._

### dagger.#Secret Outputs

_No output._

## dagger.#Stream

Dagger stream. Can be mounted as a UNIX socket.

### dagger.#Stream Inputs

_No input._

### dagger.#Stream Outputs

_No output._

Commit message:

Migrate dagger.#Secret and dagger.#Stream to new format
- Refactored to keep every transformation of built-in types (e.g. FS,
  Secret, etc) to/from CUE in the same place (plancontext)
- dagger.#Service and dagger.#Secret are now following the new FS-like format
  (e.g. `_service: id: string`)
- Backward compatibility
- dagger.#Stream is now an alias for dagger.#Service

Signed-off-by: Andrea Luzzardi <aluzzardi@gmail.com>

docs/reference/dagger/README.md, after:

---
sidebar_label: dagger
---

# alpha.dagger.io/dagger

Dagger core types

```cue
import "alpha.dagger.io/dagger"
```

## dagger.#Context

### dagger.#Context Inputs

_No input._

### dagger.#Context Outputs

_No output._

## dagger.#FS

A reference to a filesystem tree. For example:  - The root filesystem of a container  - A source code repository  - A directory containing binary artifacts Rule of thumb: if it fits in a tar archive, it fits in a #FS.

### dagger.#FS Inputs

_No input._

### dagger.#FS Outputs

_No output._

## dagger.#Plan

A deployment plan executed by `dagger up`

### dagger.#Plan Inputs

_No input._

### dagger.#Plan Outputs

_No output._

## dagger.#Secret

A reference to an external secret, for example:  - A password  - A SSH private key  - An API token Secrets are never merged in the Cue tree. They can only be used by a special filesystem mount designed to minimize leak risk.

### dagger.#Secret Inputs

_No input._

### dagger.#Secret Outputs

_No output._

## dagger.#Service

A reference to a network service endpoint, for example:  - A TCP or UDP port  - A unix or npipe socket  - An HTTPS endpoint

### dagger.#Service Inputs

_No input._

### dagger.#Service Outputs

_No output._

## dagger.#Stream

Dagger stream. Can be mounted as a UNIX socket.

### dagger.#Stream Inputs

_No input._

### dagger.#Stream Outputs

_No output._
