examples/README.md, before:

# Dagger Examples

All example commands should be executed in the `examples/` directory
in an up-to-date checkout of the [dagger repository](https://github.com/dagger/dagger).

## Deploy a static page to S3

This example shows how to generate a simple HTML page and serve it from an S3 bucket.

Components:

- [Amazon S3](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/) for hosting

1. Change the current directory to the example deployment plan and create a new deployment

```sh
cd ./simple-s3
dagger new
```

2. Configure your AWS credentials

```sh
dagger input text awsConfig.accessKey MY_AWS_ACCESS_KEY
dagger input text awsConfig.secretKey MY_AWS_SECRET_KEY
```

3. Deploy!

```sh
dagger up
```

4. Change a variable to alter the content

In this example config, the HTML content is created from a variable `name` that has a default value, here is a simple
way to change it without changing the code:

```sh
dagger input text name "someone else!"
dagger up
```

## Deploy a simple React application

This example shows how to deploy an example React Application. [Read the deployment plan](https://github.com/dagger/dagger/tree/main/examples/react)

Audience: Javascript developers looking to deploy their application.

Components:

- [Netlify](https://netlify.com) for application hosting
- [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com) for building
- [Github](https://github.com) for source code hosting
- [React-Todo-App](https://github.com/kabirbaidhya/react-todo-app) by Kabir Baidhya as a sample application.

1. Change the current directory to the example deployment plan

```sh
cd ./react
```

2. Create a new deployment from the plan

```sh
dagger new
```

3. Configure the deployment with your Netlify access token.
   You can create new tokens from the [Netlify dashboard](https://app.netlify.com/user/applications/personal).

```sh
dagger input text www.account.token MY_TOKEN
```

_NOTE: there is a dedicated command for encrypted secret inputs, but it is
not yet implemented. Coming soon!_

4. Deploy!

```sh
dagger up
```

## Deploy a complete JAMstack app

This example shows how to deploy a complete app with a backend, a database and a frontend.

This app assumes the following infrastructure is available:

- AWS ECS Cluster
- AWS ALB with a TLS certificate
- AWS RDS Instance (MySQL or PostgreSQL)
- AWS ECR repository

1. Prepare the app configuration

Edit the file `./examples/jamstack/app_config.cue` and review all values to match to your own needs.

2. Login your local docker daemon to ECR

_This step is temporary and will be removed soon (gh issue #301)._

```sh
AWS_REGION="<REPLACE_WITH_AWS_REGION>"
AWS_ID="<REPLACE_WITH_AWS_ACCOUNT_ID>"
aws ecr get-login-password --region "$AWS_REGION" | docker login --username AWS --password-stdin "${AWS_ID}.dkr.ecr.${AWS_REGION}.amazonaws.com"
```

3. Deploy!

```sh
cd ./examples/jamstack
dagger new
dagger up
```

The example `app_config.cue` from the `./examples/jamstack` directory takes the source code from a remote git repository,
but you can remove this from the file and instead points to a local source code:

```sh
dagger input dir backend.source ./my/local/backend/code
```

And the same mechanism applies for every single key in this file.

4. Get the App URL

```sh
dagger query url
```

## Provision a Kubernetes cluster on AWS

This example shows how to provision a new Kubernetes cluster on AWS, and configure your `kubectl` client to use it. [Read the deployment plan](https://github.com/dagger/dagger/tree/main/examples/kubernetes-aws)

Audience: infrastructure teams looking to provisioning kubernetes clusters as part of automated CICD pipelines.

Components:

- [Amazon EKS](https://aws.amazon.com/eks) for Kubernetes hosting
- [Amazon CloudFormation](https://aws.amazon.com/cloudformation) for infrastructure provisioning
- [Kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/#kubectl) as kubernetes client

1. Change the current directory to the example deployment plan

```sh
cd ./kubernetes-aws
```

2. Create a new deployment from the plan

```sh
dagger new
```

3. Configure the deployment with your AWS credentials

```sh
dagger input text awsConfig.accessKey MY_AWS_ACCESS_KEY
dagger input text awsConfig.secretKey MY_AWS_SECRET_KEY
```

4. Deploy!

```sh
dagger up
```

5. Export the generated kubectl config

```sh
dagger query kubeconfig.kubeconfig | jq . > kubeconfig
```

## Add HTTP monitoring to your application

This example shows how to implement a robust HTTP(s) monitoring service on top of AWS. [Read the deployment plan](https://github.com/dagger/dagger/tree/main/examples/monitoring).

Audience: application team looking to improve the reliability of their application.

Components:

- [Amazon Cloudwatch Synthetics](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/monitoring/CloudWatch_Synthetics_Canaries.html) for hosting the monitoring scripts
- [Amazon CloudFormation](https://aws.amazon.com/cloudformation) for infrastructure provisioning

1. Change the current directory to the example deployment plan

```sh
cd ./monitoring
```

2. Create a new deployment from the plan

```sh
dagger new
```

3. Configure the deployment with your AWS credentials

```sh
dagger input text awsConfig.accessKey MY_AWS_ACCESS_KEY
dagger input text awsConfig.secretKey MY_AWS_SECRET_KEY
```

4. Configure the monitoring parameters

```sh
dagger input text website https://MYWEBSITE.TLD
```

```sh
dagger input text email my_email@my_domain.tld
```

5. Deploy!

```sh
dagger up
```

## Deploy an application to your Kubernetes cluster

This example shows two different ways to deploy an application to an existing Kubernetes cluster: with and without a Helm chart. Read the deployment plan](https://github.com/dagger/dagger/tree/main/examples/kubernetes-app)

NOTE: this example requires an EKS cluster to allow authentication with your AWS credentials; but can easily be adapter to deploy to any Kubernetes cluster.

Components:

- [Amazon EKS](https://aws.amazon.com/eks) for Kubernetes hosting
- [Kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/#kubectl) as kubernetes client
- [Helm](https://helm.sh) to manage kubernetes configuration (optional)

How to run:

1. Change the current directory to the example deployment plan

```sh
cd ./kubernetes-app
```

2. Create a new deployment from the plan

```sh
dagger new
```

3. Configure the deployment with your AWS credentials

```sh
dagger input text awsConfig.accessKey MY_AWS_ACCESS_KEY
dagger input text awsConfig.secretKey MY_AWS_SECRET_KEY
```

4. Configure the EKS cluster to deploy to

Note: if you have run the `kubernetes-aws` example, you may skip this step.

```sh
dagger input text cluster.clusterName MY_CLUSTER_NAME
```

5. Load the Helm chart

```sh
dagger input dir helmChart.chart=./kubernetes-app/testdata/mychart
```

6. Deploy!

```sh
dagger up
```

Commit message:

examples/jamstack: use a inputs.yaml instead of cue code
Signed-off-by: Sam Alba <sam.alba@gmail.com>

examples/README.md, after:

# Dagger Examples

All example commands should be executed in the `examples/` directory
in an up-to-date checkout of the [dagger repository](https://github.com/dagger/dagger).

## Deploy a static page to S3

This example shows how to generate a simple HTML page and serve it from an S3 bucket.

Components:

- [Amazon S3](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/) for hosting

1. Change the current directory to the example deployment plan and create a new deployment

```sh
cd ./simple-s3
dagger new
```

2. Configure your AWS credentials

```sh
dagger input text awsConfig.accessKey MY_AWS_ACCESS_KEY
dagger input text awsConfig.secretKey MY_AWS_SECRET_KEY
```

3. Deploy!

```sh
dagger up
```

4. Change a variable to alter the content

In this example config, the HTML content is created from a variable `name` that has a default value, here is a simple
way to change it without changing the code:

```sh
dagger input text name "someone else!"
dagger up
```

## Deploy a simple React application

This example shows how to deploy an example React Application. [Read the deployment plan](https://github.com/dagger/dagger/tree/main/examples/react)

Audience: Javascript developers looking to deploy their application.

Components:

- [Netlify](https://netlify.com) for application hosting
- [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com) for building
- [Github](https://github.com) for source code hosting
- [React-Todo-App](https://github.com/kabirbaidhya/react-todo-app) by Kabir Baidhya as a sample application.

1. Change the current directory to the example deployment plan

```sh
cd ./react
```

2. Create a new deployment from the plan

```sh
dagger new
```

3. Configure the deployment with your Netlify access token.
   You can create new tokens from the [Netlify dashboard](https://app.netlify.com/user/applications/personal).

```sh
dagger input text www.account.token MY_TOKEN
```

_NOTE: there is a dedicated command for encrypted secret inputs, but it is
not yet implemented. Coming soon!_

4. Deploy!

```sh
dagger up
```

## Deploy a complete JAMstack app

This example shows how to deploy a complete app with a backend, a database and a frontend.

This app assumes the following infrastructure is available:

- AWS ECS Cluster
- AWS ALB with a TLS certificate
- AWS RDS Instance (MySQL or PostgreSQL)
- AWS ECR repository

1. Create a new deployment from the plan

```sh
cd ./examples/jamstack
dagger new
```

2. Edit the inputs

Edit the file `inputs.yaml` and review all values to match to your infrastructure.

Add the inputs to the deployment:

```sh
dagger input yaml "" -f ./inputs.yaml
```

1. Deploy!

```sh
dagger up
```

The example `inputs.yaml` from the `./examples/jamstack` directory takes the source code from a remote git repository, but you can remove this from the file and instead points to a local source code:

```sh
dagger input dir backend.source ./my/local/backend/code
```

And the same mechanism applies for every single key in this file.

4. Get the App URL

```sh
dagger query url
```

## Provision a Kubernetes cluster on AWS

This example shows how to provision a new Kubernetes cluster on AWS, and configure your `kubectl` client to use it. [Read the deployment plan](https://github.com/dagger/dagger/tree/main/examples/kubernetes-aws)

Audience: infrastructure teams looking to provisioning kubernetes clusters as part of automated CICD pipelines.

Components:

- [Amazon EKS](https://aws.amazon.com/eks) for Kubernetes hosting
- [Amazon CloudFormation](https://aws.amazon.com/cloudformation) for infrastructure provisioning
- [Kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/#kubectl) as kubernetes client

1. Change the current directory to the example deployment plan

```sh
cd ./kubernetes-aws
```

2. Create a new deployment from the plan

```sh
dagger new
```

3. Configure the deployment with your AWS credentials

```sh
dagger input text awsConfig.accessKey MY_AWS_ACCESS_KEY
dagger input text awsConfig.secretKey MY_AWS_SECRET_KEY
```

4. Deploy!

```sh
dagger up
```

5. Export the generated kubectl config

```sh
dagger query kubeconfig.kubeconfig | jq . > kubeconfig
```

## Add HTTP monitoring to your application

This example shows how to implement a robust HTTP(s) monitoring service on top of AWS. [Read the deployment plan](https://github.com/dagger/dagger/tree/main/examples/monitoring).

Audience: application team looking to improve the reliability of their application.

Components:

- [Amazon Cloudwatch Synthetics](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/monitoring/CloudWatch_Synthetics_Canaries.html) for hosting the monitoring scripts
- [Amazon CloudFormation](https://aws.amazon.com/cloudformation) for infrastructure provisioning

1. Change the current directory to the example deployment plan

```sh
cd ./monitoring
```

2. Create a new deployment from the plan

```sh
dagger new
```

3. Configure the deployment with your AWS credentials

```sh
dagger input text awsConfig.accessKey MY_AWS_ACCESS_KEY
dagger input text awsConfig.secretKey MY_AWS_SECRET_KEY
```

4. Configure the monitoring parameters

```sh
dagger input text website https://MYWEBSITE.TLD
```

```sh
dagger input text email my_email@my_domain.tld
```

5. Deploy!

```sh
dagger up
```

## Deploy an application to your Kubernetes cluster

This example shows two different ways to deploy an application to an existing Kubernetes cluster: with and without a Helm chart. Read the deployment plan](https://github.com/dagger/dagger/tree/main/examples/kubernetes-app)

NOTE: this example requires an EKS cluster to allow authentication with your AWS credentials; but can easily be adapter to deploy to any Kubernetes cluster.

Components:

- [Amazon EKS](https://aws.amazon.com/eks) for Kubernetes hosting
- [Kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/#kubectl) as kubernetes client
- [Helm](https://helm.sh) to manage kubernetes configuration (optional)

How to run:

1. Change the current directory to the example deployment plan

```sh
cd ./kubernetes-app
```

2. Create a new deployment from the plan

```sh
dagger new
```

3. Configure the deployment with your AWS credentials

```sh
dagger input text awsConfig.accessKey MY_AWS_ACCESS_KEY
dagger input text awsConfig.secretKey MY_AWS_SECRET_KEY
```

4. Configure the EKS cluster to deploy to

Note: if you have run the `kubernetes-aws` example, you may skip this step.

```sh
dagger input text cluster.clusterName MY_CLUSTER_NAME
```

5. Load the Helm chart

```sh
dagger input dir helmChart.chart=./kubernetes-app/testdata/mychart
```

6. Deploy!

```sh
dagger up
```
