docs/1001-install.md, before:

---
slug: /1001/install/
---

# Install Dagger

## Option 1: Use Homebrew (Mac OS only)

From your Mac OS terminal, run the following command:

```shell
brew install dagger/tap/dagger
```

If dagger is already installed, you can upgrade it using this command:

```shell
brew update
brew upgrade dagger
```

## Option 2: Run a shell script

From a terminal, run the following command:

```shell
curl -sfL https://releases.dagger.io/dagger/install.sh | sh
```

You now have the dagger binary in the local directory under `./bin/dagger`.

You can then install it globally on your system:

```shell
sudo mv ./bin/dagger /usr/local/bin
```

## Option 2 (Windows): Run a shell script

From a terminal, run the following command:

```shell
curl https://releases.dagger.io/dagger/install.ps1 -OutFile install.ps1 ; ./install.ps1; rm install.ps1
```

We try to move the dagger binary under `C:\Windows\System32` but
in case use missing the necessary permission we'll save everything under `<your home folder>/dagger`

## Option 3: Download a binary release

Open your web browser to [the latest release](https://github.com/dagger/dagger/releases/latest).

From the **assets** section, download the archive corresponding to your OS and Arch.

## Option 4: Install from source

You will need [Go](https://golang.org) version 1.16 or later.

1\. Clone the dagger repository

```shell
git clone https://github.com/dagger/dagger.git
```

2\. Build the `dagger` binary.

```shell
cd dagger; make
```

3\. Copy the `dagger` tool to a location listed in your `$PATH`. For example, to copy it to `/usr/local/bin`:

```shell
cp ./cmd/dagger/dagger /usr/local/bin
```

## Enable autocompletion manually

You can generate an auto completion script using `dagger completion <your shell>`

```sh
Usage:
  dagger completion [command]

Available Commands:
  bash        generate the autocompletion script for bash
  fish        generate the autocompletion script for fish
  powershell  generate the autocompletion script for powershell
  zsh         generate the autocompletion script for zsh
```

Use `dagger completion <your shell> --help` for shell specific instructions.

Commit message:

Display caution message about docker requirement
Signed-off-by: jffarge <jeanfrancois.farge@gmail.com>

docs/1001-install.md, after:

---
slug: /1001/install/
---

# Install Dagger

:::caution Requirement

- Dagger requires [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/) to be installed and running.

:::

## Option 1: Use Homebrew (Mac OS only)

From your Mac OS terminal, run the following command:

```shell
brew install dagger/tap/dagger
```

If dagger is already installed, you can upgrade it using this command:

```shell
brew update
brew upgrade dagger
```

## Option 2: Run a shell script

From a terminal, run the following command:

```shell
curl -sfL https://releases.dagger.io/dagger/install.sh | sh
```

You now have the dagger binary in the local directory under `./bin/dagger`.

You can then install it globally on your system:

```shell
sudo mv ./bin/dagger /usr/local/bin
```

## Option 2 (Windows): Run a shell script

From a terminal, run the following command:

```shell
curl https://releases.dagger.io/dagger/install.ps1 -OutFile install.ps1 ; ./install.ps1; rm install.ps1
```

We try to move the dagger binary under `C:\Windows\System32` but
in case use missing the necessary permission we'll save everything under `<your home folder>/dagger`

## Option 3: Download a binary release

Open your web browser to [the latest release](https://github.com/dagger/dagger/releases/latest).

From the **assets** section, download the archive corresponding to your OS and Arch.

## Option 4: Install from source

You will need [Go](https://golang.org) version 1.16 or later.

1\. Clone the dagger repository

```shell
git clone https://github.com/dagger/dagger.git
```

2\. Build the `dagger` binary.

```shell
cd dagger; make
```

3\. Copy the `dagger` tool to a location listed in your `$PATH`. For example, to copy it to `/usr/local/bin`:

```shell
cp ./cmd/dagger/dagger /usr/local/bin
```

## Enable autocompletion manually

You can generate an auto completion script using `dagger completion <your shell>`

```sh
Usage:
  dagger completion [command]

Available Commands:
  bash        generate the autocompletion script for bash
  fish        generate the autocompletion script for fish
  powershell  generate the autocompletion script for powershell
  zsh         generate the autocompletion script for zsh
```

Use `dagger completion <your shell> --help` for shell specific instructions.
