docs/install.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 2
slug: /install
---

# Install Dagger

## Option 1: Use Homebrew (Mac OS only)

From your Mac OS terminal, run the following command:

```shell
brew install dagger/tap/dagger
```

If dagger is already installed, you can upgrade it using this command:

```shell
brew update; brew upgrade dagger
```

## Option 2: Run a shell script

From a terminal, run the following command:

```shell
curl -sfL https://releases.dagger.io/dagger/install.sh | sh
```

You now have the dagger binary in the local directory under `./bin/dagger`.

You can then install it globally on your system:

```shell
sudo mv ./bin/dagger /usr/local/bin
```

## Option 3: Download a binary release

Open your web browser to [the latest release](https://github.com/dagger/dagger/releases/latest).

From the **assets** section, download the archive corresponding to your OS and Arch.

## Option 4: Install from source

You will need [Go](https://golang.org) version 1.16 or later.

1\. Clone the dagger repository

```shell
git clone https://github.com/dagger/dagger.git
```

2\. Build the `dagger` binary.

```shell
cd dagger; make
```

3\. Copy the `dagger` tool to a location listed in your `$PATH`. For example, to copy it to `/usr/local/bin`:

```shell
cp ./cmd/dagger/dagger /usr/local/bin
```

Commit message:

[Installation] - Improve Installation for Windows Users
- **What this feature does**:
Windows user should be able to use the dagger binary getting a similar experience to the one proposed for Linux in the docs.
- **What has been changed**: the feature implement a powershell script similar to `install.sh` logic. More specifically I've updated `install.md` and added `install.ps1`

I'm not sure if the  URL `releases.dagger.io` is currently pointing at the content of GH repo or something else so the documented steps may need a review.

Signed-off-by: alefesta <afesta@alfweb.com>

docs/install.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 2
slug: /install
---

# Install Dagger

## Option 1: Use Homebrew (Mac OS only)

From your Mac OS terminal, run the following command:

```shell
brew install dagger/tap/dagger
```

If dagger is already installed, you can upgrade it using this command:

```shell
brew update; brew upgrade dagger
```

## Option 2: Run a shell script

From a terminal, run the following command:

```shell
curl -sfL https://releases.dagger.io/dagger/install.sh | sh
```

You now have the dagger binary in the local directory under `./bin/dagger`.

You can then install it globally on your system:

```shell
sudo mv ./bin/dagger /usr/local/bin
```

## Option 2 (Windows): Run a shell script

Since Dagger repository is currently private, we have to use a workaround
to be able to run the script and match the latest release.
This workaround will be removed once the repo will become public.
To generate a personal access token on GitHub follow the guidelines  at [Create a personal access token](https://docs.github.com/en/github/authenticating-to-github/keeping-your-account-and-data-secure/creating-a-personal-access-token)

From a terminal, run the following command:

```shell
$personalToken= <INSERT YOUR PERSONAL TOKEN>
curl https://releases.dagger.io/dagger/install.ps1 -OutFile install.ps1 ; ./install.ps1 -PersonalToken $personalToken; rm install.ps1
```

We try to move the dagger binary under `C:\Windows\System32` but
in case use missing the necessary permission we'll save everything under `<your home folder>/dagger`

## Option 3: Download a binary release

Open your web browser to [the latest release](https://github.com/dagger/dagger/releases/latest).

From the **assets** section, download the archive corresponding to your OS and Arch.

## Option 4: Install from source

You will need [Go](https://golang.org) version 1.16 or later.

1\. Clone the dagger repository

```shell
git clone https://github.com/dagger/dagger.git
```

2\. Build the `dagger` binary.

```shell
cd dagger; make
```

3\. Copy the `dagger` tool to a location listed in your `$PATH`. For example, to copy it to `/usr/local/bin`:

```shell
cp ./cmd/dagger/dagger /usr/local/bin
```
