docs/reference/universe/README.md, before:

# Index

- [alpine](./alpine.md) - Base package for Alpine Linux
- [aws](./aws/README.md) - AWS base package
- [aws/cloudformation](./aws/cloudformation.md) - AWS CloudFormation
- [aws/ecr](./aws/ecr.md) - Amazon Elastic Container Registry (ECR)
- [aws/ecs](./aws/ecs.md) - AWS Elastic Container Service (ECS)
- [aws/eks](./aws/eks.md) - AWS Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS)
- [aws/elb](./aws/elb.md) - AWS Elastic Load Balancer (ELBv2)
- [aws/rds](./aws/rds.md) - AWS Relational Database Service (RDS)
- [aws/s3](./aws/s3.md) - AWS Simple Storage Service
- [dagger](./dagger/README.md) - Dagger core types
- [dagger/op](./dagger/op.md) - op: low-level operations for Dagger processing pipelines
- [docker](./docker/README.md) - Docker container operations
- [docker/compose](./docker/compose.md) - Docker-compose operations
- [gcp](./gcp/README.md) - Google Cloud Platform
- [gcp/gcr](./gcp/gcr.md) - Google Container Registry
- [gcp/gke](./gcp/gke.md) - Google Kubernetes Engine
- [git](./git.md) - Git operations
- [go](./go.md) - Go build operations
- [io](./io.md) - IO operations
- [js/yarn](./js/yarn.md) - Yarn is a package manager for Javascript applications
- [kubernetes](./kubernetes/README.md) - Kubernetes client operations
- [kubernetes/helm](./kubernetes/helm.md) - Helm package manager
- [kubernetes/kustomize](./kubernetes/kustomize.md) - Kustomize config management
- [netlify](./netlify.md) - Netlify client operations
- [os](./os.md) - OS operations
- [random](./random.md) - Random generation utilities
- [terraform](./terraform.md) - Terraform operations

Commit message:

Add maven package in stdlib
Signed-off-by: Alvise <vitalvise@gmail.com>

docs/reference/universe/README.md, after:

# Index

- [alpine](./alpine.md) - Base package for Alpine Linux
- [aws](./aws/README.md) - AWS base package
- [aws/cloudformation](./aws/cloudformation.md) - AWS CloudFormation
- [aws/ecr](./aws/ecr.md) - Amazon Elastic Container Registry (ECR)
- [aws/ecs](./aws/ecs.md) - AWS Elastic Container Service (ECS)
- [aws/eks](./aws/eks.md) - AWS Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS)
- [aws/elb](./aws/elb.md) - AWS Elastic Load Balancer (ELBv2)
- [aws/rds](./aws/rds.md) - AWS Relational Database Service (RDS)
- [aws/s3](./aws/s3.md) - AWS Simple Storage Service
- [dagger](./dagger/README.md) - Dagger core types
- [dagger/op](./dagger/op.md) - op: low-level operations for Dagger processing pipelines
- [docker](./docker/README.md) - Docker container operations
- [docker/compose](./docker/compose.md) - Docker-compose operations
- [gcp](./gcp/README.md) - Google Cloud Platform
- [gcp/gcr](./gcp/gcr.md) - Google Container Registry
- [gcp/gke](./gcp/gke.md) - Google Kubernetes Engine
- [git](./git.md) - Git operations
- [go](./go.md) - Go build operations
- [io](./io.md) - IO operations
- [java/maven](./java/maven.md) - Maven is a build automation tool for Java
- [js/yarn](./js/yarn.md) - Yarn is a package manager for Javascript applications
- [kubernetes](./kubernetes/README.md) - Kubernetes client operations
- [kubernetes/helm](./kubernetes/helm.md) - Helm package manager
- [kubernetes/kustomize](./kubernetes/kustomize.md) - Kustomize config management
- [netlify](./netlify.md) - Netlify client operations
- [os](./os.md) - OS operations
- [random](./random.md) - Random generation utilities
- [terraform](./terraform.md) - Terraform operations
