docs/guides/actions/1239-making-reusable-package.md, before:

---
slug: /1239/making-reusable-package
displayed_sidebar: "0.2"
---

# Making reusable packages

Whilst splitting your plan into several files is a good idea, you will sometimes need to create standalone packages aiming to be reusable and shared. Let's explore how to do that.

## Packages, modules, and Dagger projects

Understanding the difference between a package, a module and a Dagger project is an important distinction, as it will help better organizing your work:

- **CUE Package**: directory with CUE files, each including a package definition on top, making it importable (e.g, `universe.dagger.io/docker` is a package, `universe.dagger.io/docker/cli` is another package);
- **CUE Module**: directory with a `cue.mod` directory which makes for the prefix/root of importable packages (e.g, `universe.dagger.io` is a module);
- **Dagger Project**: a CUE module that includes dagger plans and dependencies for running the dagger CLI.

## End-to-End example

Instead of splitting all of our files in the the same project with a module, we could directly make reusable components from our plan as standalone packages. For the sake of the exercise, we will use Github as a version control system, but it will work with any alternative.

### Create the base Dagger project

First, let's start with a basic plan:

- Create the root directory

```console
mkdir rootProject && cd rootProject
```

- Initialize the project

```console
dagger project init
```

- Update `dagger` and `universe` dependencies

```console
dagger project update
```

- At the root of the project, create your `main.cue` file (file and package names are arbitrary):

```cue title="rootProject/main.cue"
package main

import (
    "dagger.io/dagger"
)

dagger.#Plan & {
    actions: {
        hello: #Run & {
            script: contents: "echo \"Hello!\""
        }
    }
}
```

We are currently calling a `#Run` definition that doesn't exist yet. We will declare it in a new package right below: it will wrap the `bash.#Run` definition with a custom image.

### Create the package

Let's see how to create the `#Run` definition in its own package:

- Create a completely new directory next to `rootProject`: it will be a new git repository.
You can directly `git clone` or initialize a new one with:

```console
cd .. && mkdir personal && cd personal && git init
```

- At the root of this new folder, create the CUE file that will contain the `#Run` package. The name of the file is not important, but the package name shall follow the name of the remote repo (best practice convention):

```cue title=personal/main.cue
package personal

import(
  "universe.dagger.io/alpine"
  "universe.dagger.io/bash"
)

#Run: {
    _img: alpine.#Build & {
        packages: bash: _
    }

    bash.#Run & {
        always: true
        input:  _img.output
    }
}
```

You should now have this file and directory structure:

```console
$ tree -L 2
.
├── personal
│   └── main.cue
└── rootProject
    ├── cue.mod
    └── main.cue

3 directories, 2 files
```

### Link package to the project

- We first need to include the newly created package in the project. In order to do that, we will create a symlink similar to what `dagger project update` would create once we push the package on Github:

```console
$ ls -l
total 0
drwxr-xr-x  4 home  wheel  128  9 mai 16:04 personal
drwxr-xr-x  4 home  wheel  128  9 mai 16:01 rootProject

$ mkdir -p rootProject/cue.mod/pkg/github.com/your-username/

$ ln -s "$(pwd)/personal" "$(pwd)/rootProject/cue.mod/pkg/github.com/your-username/personal"
```

When using your package from `dagger project update` in the `rootProject` directory, the actual packager manager would copy the files from the repository in the `rootProject/cue.mod/pkg/github.com/your-username/personal` folder.

- We then need to change the project's `main.cue` to call the `#Run` definition in the `personal` package that we just built:

```cue title="rootProject/main.cue"
package main

import (
    "dagger.io/dagger"

    "github.com/your-username/personal" // import personal package
)

dagger.#Plan & {
    actions: {
        hello: personal.#Run & { // reference #Run definition from personal package imported above
            script: contents: "echo \"Hello!\""
        }
    }
}
```

### Run the project

Now that we have connected all the dots, let's run our plan to see if it works:

```console
$ cd rootProject

$ dagger do hello --log-format plain
4:42PM INF actions.hello.script._write | computing
4:42PM INF actions.hello._img._dag."0"._op | computing
4:42PM INF actions.hello.script._write | completed    duration=0s
4:42PM INF actions.hello._img._dag."0"._op | completed    duration=0s
4:42PM INF actions.hello._img._dag."1"._exec | computing
4:42PM INF actions.hello._img._dag."1"._exec | completed    duration=0s
4:42PM INF actions.hello._exec | computing
4:42PM INF actions.hello._exec | completed    duration=200ms
4:42PM INF actions.hello._exec | #5 0.123 Hello!
```

### Push package on repository

Now that we made sure we correctly built our package, we only need to push it to the repository:

- Add
- Commit
- Tag
- Push

On another project, you will directly be able to retrieve the `personal` package using the `dagger project update url@tag` command.

<u>Reminder:</u>

*The name of the repository should follow the name of the created folder and the package name (`personal` in the above example)*

Commit message:

docs: Clarify git tag format when installing a package
Signed-off-by: Helder Correia <174525+helderco@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/guides/actions/1239-making-reusable-package.md, after:

---
slug: /1239/making-reusable-package
displayed_sidebar: "0.2"
---

# Making reusable packages

Whilst splitting your plan into several files is a good idea, you will sometimes need to create standalone packages aiming to be reusable and shared. Let's explore how to do that.

## Packages, modules, and Dagger projects

Understanding the difference between a package, a module and a Dagger project is an important distinction, as it will help better organizing your work:

- **CUE Package**: directory with CUE files, each including a package definition on top, making it importable (e.g, `universe.dagger.io/docker` is a package, `universe.dagger.io/docker/cli` is another package);
- **CUE Module**: directory with a `cue.mod` directory which makes for the prefix/root of importable packages (e.g, `universe.dagger.io` is a module);
- **Dagger Project**: a CUE module that includes dagger plans and dependencies for running the dagger CLI.

## End-to-End example

Instead of splitting all of our files in the the same project with a module, we could directly make reusable components from our plan as standalone packages. For the sake of the exercise, we will use Github as a version control system, but it will work with any alternative.

### Create the base Dagger project

First, let's start with a basic plan:

- Create the root directory

```console
mkdir rootProject && cd rootProject
```

- Initialize the project

```console
dagger project init
```

- Update `dagger` and `universe` dependencies

```console
dagger project update
```

- At the root of the project, create your `main.cue` file (file and package names are arbitrary):

```cue title="rootProject/main.cue"
package main

import (
    "dagger.io/dagger"
)

dagger.#Plan & {
    actions: {
        hello: #Run & {
            script: contents: "echo \"Hello!\""
        }
    }
}
```

We are currently calling a `#Run` definition that doesn't exist yet. We will declare it in a new package right below: it will wrap the `bash.#Run` definition with a custom image.

### Create the package

Let's see how to create the `#Run` definition in its own package:

- Create a completely new directory next to `rootProject`: it will be a new git repository.
You can directly `git clone` or initialize a new one with:

```console
cd .. && mkdir personal && cd personal && git init
```

- At the root of this new folder, create the CUE file that will contain the `#Run` package. The name of the file is not important, but the package name shall follow the name of the remote repo (best practice convention):

```cue title=personal/main.cue
package personal

import(
  "universe.dagger.io/alpine"
  "universe.dagger.io/bash"
)

#Run: {
    _img: alpine.#Build & {
        packages: bash: _
    }

    bash.#Run & {
        always: true
        input:  _img.output
    }
}
```

You should now have this file and directory structure:

```console
$ tree -L 2
.
├── personal
│   └── main.cue
└── rootProject
    ├── cue.mod
    └── main.cue

3 directories, 2 files
```

### Link package to the project

- We first need to include the newly created package in the project. In order to do that, we will create a symlink similar to what `dagger project update` would create once we push the package on Github:

```console
$ ls -l
total 0
drwxr-xr-x  4 home  wheel  128  9 mai 16:04 personal
drwxr-xr-x  4 home  wheel  128  9 mai 16:01 rootProject

$ mkdir -p rootProject/cue.mod/pkg/github.com/your-username/

$ ln -s "$(pwd)/personal" "$(pwd)/rootProject/cue.mod/pkg/github.com/your-username/personal"
```

When using your package from `dagger project update` in the `rootProject` directory, the actual packager manager would copy the files from the repository in the `rootProject/cue.mod/pkg/github.com/your-username/personal` folder.

- We then need to change the project's `main.cue` to call the `#Run` definition in the `personal` package that we just built:

```cue title="rootProject/main.cue"
package main

import (
    "dagger.io/dagger"

    "github.com/your-username/personal" // import personal package
)

dagger.#Plan & {
    actions: {
        hello: personal.#Run & { // reference #Run definition from personal package imported above
            script: contents: "echo \"Hello!\""
        }
    }
}
```

### Run the project

Now that we have connected all the dots, let's run our plan to see if it works:

```console
$ cd rootProject

$ dagger do hello --log-format plain
4:42PM INF actions.hello.script._write | computing
4:42PM INF actions.hello._img._dag."0"._op | computing
4:42PM INF actions.hello.script._write | completed    duration=0s
4:42PM INF actions.hello._img._dag."0"._op | completed    duration=0s
4:42PM INF actions.hello._img._dag."1"._exec | computing
4:42PM INF actions.hello._img._dag."1"._exec | completed    duration=0s
4:42PM INF actions.hello._exec | computing
4:42PM INF actions.hello._exec | completed    duration=200ms
4:42PM INF actions.hello._exec | #5 0.123 Hello!
```

### Push package on repository

Now that we made sure we correctly built our package, we only need to push it to the repository:

- Add
- Commit
- Tag
- Push

On another project, you will directly be able to retrieve your package using the `dagger project update github.com/your-username/personal@<tag>` command, where `<tag>` is a git tag in the format `vX.Y.Z`[^1] (e.g., `v0.1.0`).

[^1]: Where `X.Y.Z` is a [semantic version](https://semver.org), with *major*, *minor* and *patch* components.

:::note Reminder

The name of the repository should follow the name of the created folder and the package name (`personal` in the above example).

:::

:::caution

Omitting `@<tag>` (same as using default branch for repository) or using a branch instead of a tag (e.g., `@main`) is not recommended because of **reproducibility** issues. If you do this you may get a *checksum didn't match* error.

The reason for this is that a branch may point to different commits in time. If you use a branch as the version when you install the package, the file contents of that same "version" may change if you add commits to it by the next time you install in a clean clone (`dagger project update`). The new checksum for the files won't match the one that was commited in `dagger.sum` previously.

There's an [open issue](https://github.com/dagger/dagger/issues/2502) to fix this behavior by converting the branch into a [pseudo-version](https://go.dev/ref/mod#pseudo-versions), targetting the specific commit the branch points to at the point it was added to the project or updated.

Until then, it's best to avoid using branches as versions. If you really need to, the best workaround is to vendor your module (committing in `cue.mod/pkg` to git and not running `dagger project update` in CI), and re-install with `dagger project update <url>@<branch>` to update.

:::
