docs/core-concepts/1204-secrets.md, before:

---
slug: /1204/secrets
displayed_sidebar: europa
---

# How to use secrets

Most operations in `client` support handling secrets (see [Interacting with the client](./1203-client.md)). More specifically, you can:

- Write a secret to a file;
- Read a secret from a file;
- Read a secret from an environment variable;
- Read a secret from the output of a command;
- Use a secret as the input of a command.

## Environment

The simplest use case is reading from an environment variable:

```cue
dagger.#Plan & {
    client: env: GITHUB_TOKEN: dagger.#Secret
}
```

## File

You may need to trim the whitespace, especially when reading from a file:

```cue file=../tests/core-concepts/secrets/plans/file.cue
```

## SOPS

There’s many ways to store encrypted secrets in your git repository. If you use [SOPS](https://github.com/mozilla/sops), here's a simple example where you can access keys from an encrypted yaml file:

```yaml title="secrets.yaml"
myToken: ENC[AES256_GCM,data:AlUz7g==,iv:lq3mHi4GDLfAssqhPcuUIHMm5eVzJ/EpM+q7RHGCROU=,tag:dzbT5dEGhMnHbiRTu4bHdg==,type:str]
sops:
    ...
```

```cue file=../tests/core-concepts/secrets/plans/sops.cue title="main.cue"
```

Commit message:

Start making room for the Actions API.
This commit will be rebased and the commit message changed.
I am capturing a WIP checkpoint.

My current thinking for the **entire** Core Concepts category is:
1. Start with the plan
2. Continue with the client property - it's the first thing in the plan
3. Move onto secrets - still client, but it deserves a page of its own
4. Introduce actions - the second thing in the plan
5. Reference the Actions API which shows all the core stuff
6. Re-enforce that when actions run, they create images - current
   Building container images page
7. Finish with the existing What is CUE?

I don't think that we should put anything else in here for now.

CLI Telemetry I would pull out after Use Cases & before Dagger 0.1.
It doesn't belong in any of the existing categories, so let's go for the
least amount of work for now.

Signed-off-by: Gerhard Lazu <gerhard@lazu.co.uk>

docs/core-concepts/1204-secrets.md, after:

---
slug: /1204/secrets
displayed_sidebar: europa
---

# How to use secrets

We can use secrets in a `dagger.#Plan` via the `client` property.
This enables us to:

- read a secret from an environment variable
- read a secret from a file
- read a secret from the output of a command

## Environment variable

The simplest use case is to read secrets from an environment variable:

```cue
dagger.#Plan & {
    client: env: GITHUB_TOKEN: dagger.#Secret
}
```

## File

Some use cases require reading secrets from files that are only readable by specific users:

```cue file=../tests/core-concepts/secrets/plans/file.cue
```

Notice above that we are trimming whitespace via `core.#TrimSecret`

## Command

This example reads a secret token from the output of a [`sops`](https://github.com/mozilla/sops) command:

```cue file=../tests/core-concepts/secrets/plans/sops.cue title="main.cue"
```

```yaml title="secrets.yaml"
myToken: ENC[AES256_GCM,data:AlUz7g==,iv:lq3mHi4GDLfAssqhPcuUIHMm5eVzJ/EpM+q7RHGCROU=,tag:dzbT5dEGhMnHbiRTu4bHdg==,type:str]
sops:
    ...
```

:::tip
With a good understanding of secrets, it is now time to shift our focus to `actions`, packages & imports.
This is where you will be spending most of your time with Dagger.
:::
