docs/core-concepts/1213-dagger-cue.md, before:

---
slug: /1213/api
displayed_sidebar: europa
---

# Dagger CUE API

As of Dagger 0.2, the Dagger CUE API can be imported via `dagger.io/dagger` & `dagger.io/dagger/core`

The Dagger CUE API is the set of CUE packages released alongside the Dagger engine.

Developers of other Dagger packages are expected to build on top of these core packages.

### Plan definition

`#Plan` defines the structure of a Dagger plan - a complete configuration executable by `dagger do`

| Definition | File                                                                                   | Description                                          |
| :--        | :--                                                                                    | :--                                                  |
| `#Plan`    | [plan.cue](https://github.com/dagger/dagger/blob/v0.2.4/pkg/dagger.io/dagger/plan.cue) | A special kind of program which `dagger` can execute |

### Core types

Dagger extends the CUE type system with the following core types:

| Definition     | File                                                                                        | Description                                           |
| :--            | :--                                                                                         | :--                                                   |
| `#Address`     | [types.cue](https://github.com/dagger/dagger/blob/v0.2.4/pkg/dagger.io/dagger/types.cue)    | Network service address                               |
| `#CacheDir`    | [exec.cue](https://github.com/dagger/dagger/blob/v0.2.4/pkg/dagger.io/dagger/core/exec.cue) | A (best effort) persistent cache dir                  |
| `#FS`          | [types.cue](https://github.com/dagger/dagger/blob/v0.2.4/pkg/dagger.io/dagger/types.cue)    | Reference to a filesystem tree                        |
| `#HealthCheck` | [image.cue](https://github.com/dagger/dagger/blob/v0.2.4/pkg/dagger.io/dagger/image.cue)    | Container health check                                |
| `#ImageConfig` | [image.cue](https://github.com/dagger/dagger/blob/v0.2.4/pkg/dagger.io/dagger/image.cue)    | Container image config                                |
| `#Mount`       | [exec.cue](https://github.com/dagger/dagger/blob/v0.2.4/pkg/dagger.io/dagger/core/exec.cue) | Transient filesystem mount                            |
| `#Ref`         | [image.cue](https://github.com/dagger/dagger/blob/v0.2.4/pkg/dagger.io/dagger/image.cue)    | An address for a remote container image               |
| `#Scratch`     | [types.cue](https://github.com/dagger/dagger/blob/v0.2.4/pkg/dagger.io/dagger/types.cue)    | An empty directory                                    |
| `#Secret`      | [types.cue](https://github.com/dagger/dagger/blob/v0.2.4/pkg/dagger.io/dagger/types.cue)    | Secure reference to an external secret                |
| `#Socket`      | [types.cue](https://github.com/dagger/dagger/blob/v0.2.4/pkg/dagger.io/dagger/types.cue)    | Reference to a network socket: unix, tcp/udp or npipe |
| `#TempDir`     | [exec.cue](https://github.com/dagger/dagger/blob/v0.2.4/pkg/dagger.io/dagger/core/exec.cue) | A temporary directory for command execution           |

### Core actions

Dagger works by executing actions in a certain order and passing data between actions in a certain layout.

Developers can combine actions into higher-level actions, which in turn can be combined into even higher-level actions,
and so on at arbitrary levels of depth. At the bottom of this abstraction stack are *core actions*: these
are implemented by Dagger itself, and are always available.

The following core actions are available:

| Definition      | File                                                                                              | Description                                                           |
| :--             | :--                                                                                               | :--                                                                   |
| `#Copy`         | [fs.cue](https://github.com/dagger/dagger/blob/v0.2.4/pkg/dagger.io/dagger/core/fs.cue)           | Copy files between two filesystem trees                               |
| `#DecodeSecret` | [secrets.cue](https://github.com/dagger/dagger/blob/v0.2.4/pkg/dagger.io/dagger/core/secrets.cue) | Decode a secret without leaking its contents                          |
| `#Diff`         | [fs.cue](https://github.com/dagger/dagger/blob/v0.2.4/pkg/dagger.io/dagger/core/fs.cue)           | Extract the difference between two filesystems as its own file system |
| `#Dockerfile`   | [image.cue](https://github.com/dagger/dagger/blob/v0.2.4/pkg/dagger.io/dagger/core/image.cue)     | Build a container image using a Dockerfile                            |
| `#Exec`         | [exec.cue](https://github.com/dagger/dagger/blob/v0.2.4/pkg/dagger.io/dagger/core/exec.cue)       | Execute a command in a docker-compatible container                    |
| `#Export`       | [image.cue](https://github.com/dagger/dagger/blob/v0.2.4/pkg/dagger.io/dagger/core/image.cue)     | Export an image as a tar archive                                      |
| `#GitPull`      | [git.cue](https://github.com/dagger/dagger/blob/v0.2.4/pkg/dagger.io/dagger/core/git.cue)         | Download a repository from a remote git server                        |
| `#HTTPFetch`    | [http.cue](https://github.com/dagger/dagger/blob/v0.2.4/pkg/dagger.io/dagger/core/http.cue)       | Get a file from an HTTP server                                        |
| `#Merge`        | [fs.cue](https://github.com/dagger/dagger/blob/v0.2.4/pkg/dagger.io/dagger/core/fs.cue)           | Merge multiple filesystem trees                                       |
| `#Mkdir`        | [fs.cue](https://github.com/dagger/dagger/blob/v0.2.4/pkg/dagger.io/dagger/core/fs.cue)           | Create a directory in a filesystem tree                               |
| `#NewSecret`    | [secrets.cue](https://github.com/dagger/dagger/blob/v0.2.4/pkg/dagger.io/dagger/core/secrets.cue) | Create a new a secret from a filesystem tree                          |
| `#Pull`         | [image.cue](https://github.com/dagger/dagger/blob/v0.2.4/pkg/dagger.io/dagger/core/image.cue)     | Download an image from a docker registry                              |
| `#Push`         | [image.cue](https://github.com/dagger/dagger/blob/v0.2.4/pkg/dagger.io/dagger/core/image.cue)     | Upload an image to a docker registry                                  |
| `#ReadFile`     | [fs.cue](https://github.com/dagger/dagger/blob/v0.2.4/pkg/dagger.io/dagger/core/fs.cue)           | Read a file from a filesystem tree                                    |
| `#Scratch`      | [fs.cue](https://github.com/dagger/dagger/blob/v0.2.4/pkg/dagger.io/dagger/core/fs.cue)           | Create an empty filesystem tree                                       |
| `#Set`          | [image.cue](https://github.com/dagger/dagger/blob/v0.2.4/pkg/dagger.io/dagger/core/image.cue)     | Modify a docker image                                                 |
| `#Source`       | [fs.cue](https://github.com/dagger/dagger/blob/v0.2.4/pkg/dagger.io/dagger/core/fs.cue)           | Access the source for the current CUE package                         |
| `#Subdir`       | [fs.cue](https://github.com/dagger/dagger/blob/v0.2.4/pkg/dagger.io/dagger/core/fs.cue)           | Read a subdirectory from a filesystem tree                            |
| `#TrimSecret`   | [secrets.cue](https://github.com/dagger/dagger/blob/v0.2.4/pkg/dagger.io/dagger/core/secrets.cue) | Trim leading and trailing space characters from a secret              |
| `#WriteFile`    | [fs.cue](https://github.com/dagger/dagger/blob/v0.2.4/pkg/dagger.io/dagger/core/fs.cue)           | Write a file to a filesystem tree                                     |

Commit message:

Explain why two imports are needed in Dagger CUE API doc
Used standard types & low-level primitives for the headings too.

Moved the types defined in core out of the standard types table, so that
all definitions in core are grouped under their own section.

Fixes https://github.com/dagger/dagger/issues/1903

Signed-off-by: Gerhard Lazu <gerhard@lazu.co.uk>

docs/core-concepts/1213-dagger-cue.md, after:

---
slug: /1213/api
displayed_sidebar: europa
---

# Dagger CUE API

The Dagger CUE API is the set of CUE packages released alongside the Dagger engine.

Developers of other Dagger packages are expected to build on top of these.

As of Dagger 0.2, the Dagger CUE API can be imported via:

- `dagger.io/dagger` for standard types and interfaces
- `dagger.io/dagger/core` for low-level primitives that enable precise control over the engine

### Standard types and interfaces

`#Plan` defines the structure of a Dagger plan.
This is a complete configuration executable by `dagger do`

| Definition | File                                                                                   | Description                                          |
| :--        | :--                                                                                    | :--                                                  |
| `#Plan`    | [plan.cue](https://github.com/dagger/dagger/blob/v0.2.4/pkg/dagger.io/dagger/plan.cue) | A special kind of program which `dagger` can execute |

Dagger extends the CUE type system with the following standard types:

| Definition     | File                                                                                     | Description                                           |
| :--            | :--                                                                                      | :--                                                   |
| `#Address`     | [types.cue](https://github.com/dagger/dagger/blob/v0.2.4/pkg/dagger.io/dagger/types.cue) | Network service address                               |
| `#FS`          | [types.cue](https://github.com/dagger/dagger/blob/v0.2.4/pkg/dagger.io/dagger/types.cue) | Reference to a filesystem tree                        |
| `#HealthCheck` | [image.cue](https://github.com/dagger/dagger/blob/v0.2.4/pkg/dagger.io/dagger/image.cue) | Container health check                                |
| `#ImageConfig` | [image.cue](https://github.com/dagger/dagger/blob/v0.2.4/pkg/dagger.io/dagger/image.cue) | Container image config                                |
| `#Ref`         | [image.cue](https://github.com/dagger/dagger/blob/v0.2.4/pkg/dagger.io/dagger/image.cue) | An address for a remote container image               |
| `#Scratch`     | [types.cue](https://github.com/dagger/dagger/blob/v0.2.4/pkg/dagger.io/dagger/types.cue) | An empty directory                                    |
| `#Secret`      | [types.cue](https://github.com/dagger/dagger/blob/v0.2.4/pkg/dagger.io/dagger/types.cue) | Secure reference to an external secret                |
| `#Socket`      | [types.cue](https://github.com/dagger/dagger/blob/v0.2.4/pkg/dagger.io/dagger/types.cue) | Reference to a network socket: unix, tcp/udp or npipe |

### Low-level primitives

Core types:

| Definition  | File                                                                                        | Description                                 |
| :--         | :--                                                                                         | :--                                         |
| `#CacheDir` | [exec.cue](https://github.com/dagger/dagger/blob/v0.2.4/pkg/dagger.io/dagger/core/exec.cue) | A (best effort) persistent cache dir        |
| `#Mount`    | [exec.cue](https://github.com/dagger/dagger/blob/v0.2.4/pkg/dagger.io/dagger/core/exec.cue) | Transient filesystem mount                  |
| `#TempDir`  | [exec.cue](https://github.com/dagger/dagger/blob/v0.2.4/pkg/dagger.io/dagger/core/exec.cue) | A temporary directory for command execution |

Dagger works by executing actions in a certain order and passing data between actions in a certain layout.

Developers can combine actions into higher-level actions, which in turn can be combined into even higher-level actions, and so on at arbitrary levels of depth.
At the bottom of this abstraction stack are *core actions*: these are implemented by Dagger itself, and are always available.

The following core actions are available:

| Definition      | File                                                                                              | Description                                                           |
| :--             | :--                                                                                               | :--                                                                   |
| `#Copy`         | [fs.cue](https://github.com/dagger/dagger/blob/v0.2.4/pkg/dagger.io/dagger/core/fs.cue)           | Copy files between two filesystem trees                               |
| `#DecodeSecret` | [secrets.cue](https://github.com/dagger/dagger/blob/v0.2.4/pkg/dagger.io/dagger/core/secrets.cue) | Decode a secret without leaking its contents                          |
| `#Diff`         | [fs.cue](https://github.com/dagger/dagger/blob/v0.2.4/pkg/dagger.io/dagger/core/fs.cue)           | Extract the difference between two filesystems as its own file system |
| `#Dockerfile`   | [image.cue](https://github.com/dagger/dagger/blob/v0.2.4/pkg/dagger.io/dagger/core/image.cue)     | Build a container image using a Dockerfile                            |
| `#Exec`         | [exec.cue](https://github.com/dagger/dagger/blob/v0.2.4/pkg/dagger.io/dagger/core/exec.cue)       | Execute a command in a docker-compatible container                    |
| `#Export`       | [image.cue](https://github.com/dagger/dagger/blob/v0.2.4/pkg/dagger.io/dagger/core/image.cue)     | Export an image as a tar archive                                      |
| `#GitPull`      | [git.cue](https://github.com/dagger/dagger/blob/v0.2.4/pkg/dagger.io/dagger/core/git.cue)         | Download a repository from a remote git server                        |
| `#HTTPFetch`    | [http.cue](https://github.com/dagger/dagger/blob/v0.2.4/pkg/dagger.io/dagger/core/http.cue)       | Get a file from an HTTP server                                        |
| `#Merge`        | [fs.cue](https://github.com/dagger/dagger/blob/v0.2.4/pkg/dagger.io/dagger/core/fs.cue)           | Merge multiple filesystem trees                                       |
| `#Mkdir`        | [fs.cue](https://github.com/dagger/dagger/blob/v0.2.4/pkg/dagger.io/dagger/core/fs.cue)           | Create a directory in a filesystem tree                               |
| `#NewSecret`    | [secrets.cue](https://github.com/dagger/dagger/blob/v0.2.4/pkg/dagger.io/dagger/core/secrets.cue) | Create a new a secret from a filesystem tree                          |
| `#Pull`         | [image.cue](https://github.com/dagger/dagger/blob/v0.2.4/pkg/dagger.io/dagger/core/image.cue)     | Download an image from a docker registry                              |
| `#Push`         | [image.cue](https://github.com/dagger/dagger/blob/v0.2.4/pkg/dagger.io/dagger/core/image.cue)     | Upload an image to a docker registry                                  |
| `#ReadFile`     | [fs.cue](https://github.com/dagger/dagger/blob/v0.2.4/pkg/dagger.io/dagger/core/fs.cue)           | Read a file from a filesystem tree                                    |
| `#Scratch`      | [fs.cue](https://github.com/dagger/dagger/blob/v0.2.4/pkg/dagger.io/dagger/core/fs.cue)           | Create an empty filesystem tree                                       |
| `#Set`          | [image.cue](https://github.com/dagger/dagger/blob/v0.2.4/pkg/dagger.io/dagger/core/image.cue)     | Modify a docker image                                                 |
| `#Source`       | [fs.cue](https://github.com/dagger/dagger/blob/v0.2.4/pkg/dagger.io/dagger/core/fs.cue)           | Access the source for the current CUE package                         |
| `#Subdir`       | [fs.cue](https://github.com/dagger/dagger/blob/v0.2.4/pkg/dagger.io/dagger/core/fs.cue)           | Read a subdirectory from a filesystem tree                            |
| `#TrimSecret`   | [secrets.cue](https://github.com/dagger/dagger/blob/v0.2.4/pkg/dagger.io/dagger/core/secrets.cue) | Trim leading and trailing space characters from a secret              |
| `#WriteFile`    | [fs.cue](https://github.com/dagger/dagger/blob/v0.2.4/pkg/dagger.io/dagger/core/fs.cue)           | Write a file to a filesystem tree                                     |
